# CS-370-Current-Emerging-Trends
This project focused on training an AI model to successfully navigate a static maze to reach the goal, which is commonly referred to as a pathfinding problem. The training method used reinforcement learning to guide the deep Q-learning algorithm to navigate the maze using rewards for success and penalties for undesired behavior.

## Briefly explain the work that you did on this project.
The initial setup consisted of starter code and a sample environment. As part of the project, we needed to read and understand what the provided code did, how the reinforcement learning process was accomplished, and to develop the gameplay and learning loop based on the functions that were provided.
Developing the game loop consisted of setting up the initial state that includes a starting location, beginning the game loop, determining either an exploration or exploitation action based on the current epsilon value, performing the action and receiving the environment feedback including win/loss conditions, then training on a random set of previously recorded moves and results.

## What do computer scientists do and why does it matter?
Computer scientists develop, analyze, and design computer systems along with the methods and algorithms used to solve problems. While this primarily focuses on software applications and system architecture, the underlying principles of system design and analysis can be applied to many different environments and tasks. In my current role as a Product Owner, I use my knowledge as a computer scientist to interact with both developers and stakeholders, with a goal of providing analysis of current and desired systems that aids in understanding and successfully developing those systems. I am responsible for bridging the gap between highly technical and non-technical individuals by using the ability to understand the tasks and challenges faced by both sides, and helping to facilitate communication and decision-making during the development process.
Modern society depends on the use of computing systems for communication, transportation, finance, education, and scientific discovery. Computer scientists enable the development and maintenance of these systems and improve the safety and security of these vital systems.

## How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist?
Computer scientists are often presented with large problems to solve, such as designing the architecture for an entire system or developing a new program. The most important approach to any large problem is to logically break it down into smaller, solvable steps.
Not only does breaking a problem down help with defining small intermediate steps toward forming a full solution, but it also aids in breaking the task into work that can be distributed. In many cases, a single project is developed by many different individuals; this can range from architects, to developers, to Quality Assurance, and documentation. Breaking down work into smaller steps allows the work to be effectively distributed among the groups and teams that are part of the project. Once broken down, dependencies can more naturally be identified, and independent parts can be planned for simultaneous implementation to reduce the overall time and cost of the project.
In this way, computer scientists reduce complexity, clarify dependencies, and enable efficient parallel development of large systems.

## What are my ethical responsibilities to the end user and the organization?
Ethics are a significant portion of delivering a safe and effective product. As a developer it is critical to build with safety, privacy, legality, and ethics firmly in mind, beyond the immediate needs of the current project. An ethical developer raises concerns over security and how data will be processed and handled in order to ensure that both the company and the end user are protected. As such, it is important to be aware of industry-standard methods for mitigating data breaches, reducing over-collection of user data, and securing communications and storage of sensitive and proprietary data.
